Next we have to do is make sure that we iterate over each these neighbor pairs.
So going to set a of a for of loop to iterate through all these different neighbors.
So I'll say or let neighbor of neighbors I'm going to put the closing curly brace for the for loop right
above this very last comment.
Like so then inside of here we're gonna do a couple of different checks.
We first need to see if that neighbor is out of balance remember if we centered on the element like
right here we have definitely got all four sides covered inside that neighbors array.
So we definitely do not want to go above or to the left at all but implement this.
We can just add in a little bit clever logic right here first rate above.
I'm going to get access to the neighbor variable.
I'm going to pull a couple variables out of it using a radio structuring so I going to say next row
and next column and that's going to come from the neighbor variable.
So next row next column is essentially the cell that we are thinking about visiting next so to do this
check and see if that neighbor is out of bounds I'll say if next row is less than zero or next row is
greater than or equal to cells.
Remember we defined cells at the very top up here.
That's going to be the total number of cells in both the horizontal and vertical direction so a check
of greater than or equal to cells is going to handle the case in which we are trying to walk off to
the far right hand side or the far bottom edge as well we can also check to see if next column is less
than zero or next column it's greater than or equal to cells as well
as zoom out for just a second.
You can see that whole line very easily so if we encounter this situation right here and we do have
a neighbor that is out of bounds or we're trying to visit we still want to iterate through all the remaining
neighbors but we don't want to run any other code for this particular neighbor period that we are looking
at right now.
So to do so we'll use the.
Continue keyword remember the continue keyword means don't leave this for loop.
Just don't do anything else for the current iteration of the current step.
So essentially skip over all the rest of the stuff in here and move on to the next neighbor pair so
then after that this is going to be kind of a more challenging step.
We need to check to see our me.
This one's going to easy.
We need to see if we visited this neighbor and if we have we'll just continue to the next neighbor.
Recall that inside of our grid array we are storing all those billions of true or false to record whether
or not a certain cell has been visited.
It's all we have to do here is look at if grid at next row next column is true then continue as well
we could technically combine these two statements together into one.
But personally I think that breaking them out separately just leaves.
Make sure it's really clear about exactly what's going on inside of our coat and anyone else who reads
this in the future can look at this comment and just understand exactly what these two statements are
really looking for.
OK.
Now here's the part that's going to be a little more challenging.
So now we need to take a look and decide if we are trying to go up or down left or right and depending
upon that we need to update either the verticals array or the horizontals array.
So once again let's imagine that we're at that Senate center cell right here so if we are going up or
down we are crossing over a horizontal element and that means we need to update the horizontals array
otherwise if we are going left or right we're crossing over a vertical element that means we need to
update the verticals array now.
Unfortunately with only the information we have inside of this for loop right now it's just a little
bit challenging to decide if we are going up down left or right in order to really decide that we could
do some kind of comparison between next row and next column versus the row in column variables so we
currently have.
So we can essentially subtract each of these from each other and use that to determine which direction
we are travelling.
But there's a way easier way to do it than that.
Remember the array right here of neighbors we put together we said that row minus one was going to be
above and then the next one's going to be going down and then the next one is going to be going to the
right or excuse me.
I get that in the wrong order.
Sorry that's going up to the right down to the left.
So in order to make that really clear and communicate that ordering down into our for loop we can just
throw on a third element to these arrays and we can use that third element as kind of a flag to determine
what direction we are traveling in down when we get to this statement down here as the third element
and these arrays are going to say a string right here of this one we are moving up then right and down
and then left so then inside of our D structuring statement right there we're pulling out the next row
next column.
We can also get the direction that we are traveling.
Gives me direction that we are traveling in so we can use that variable right there to decide which
way we're going and use that to decide if we're going to modify either horizontals or verticals of the
rest of the logic we need for this step is just a little bit complicated.
So let's take a quick pause right here and discuss exactly what has to be done in the next video.